>> Ifill: AS COMPANIES AND
GOVERNMENTS LINE UP TO PULL BACK
THE CONFEDERATE FLAG, THE FINE
LINE BETWEEN SYMBOLS OF HERITAGE
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF, ALSO AHEAD THIS
TUESDAY:
AN EXODUS TO EUROPE, A GREEK
ISLAND TRANSFORMS INTO A GATEWAY
TO THE CONTINENT, OVERRUN BY
MIGRANTS CROSSING THE
MEDITERRANEAN.
>> ONE DAY WE HAD 11 BOATS IN ON
THESE BEACHES ALONE.
I JUST LOOK AFTER A SMALL BIT OF
COASTLINE, AND THEY COME ALL THE
WAY DOWN AROUND THE ISLAND.
>> Ifill: PLUS AFTER LOSING
>> Ifill: PLUS, AFTER LOSING
THEIR SON TO GUNFIRE, THE STORY
OF A MOTHER AND FATHER'S FIGHT
FOR JUSTICE.
A NEW FILM EXPLORES RACE, GUNS
AND STAND YOUR GROUND LAWS.
>> EVEN THOUGH WE RECEIVED THE
VERDICT WE KNEW WE SHOULD HAVE
RECEIVED FOR JORDAN, WE STILL
DON'T HAVE OUR CHILD.
>> AT THE END OF THE DAY, NO
MATTER HOW MUCH TIME SOMEBODY
GETS, IT'S NOT ENOUGH.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: A DRIVE TO CONFRONT
THE PAST AND TAKE DOWN THE
CONFEDERATE FLAG GAINED MOMENTUM
TODAY.D BY OUTRAGE OVER
THE MASSACRE LASTEEK WAT A
BLACK CHURCH IN CHARLESTON,
SOUTH CAROLINA.
MAJOR RETAILERS, INCLUDING WAL-
MART, AMAZON, SEARS AND
E-BAY, ANNOUNCED THEY'LL STOP
SELLING THE REBEL EMBLEM.
AND, A LEADING SUPPLIER, "VALLEY
FORGE FLAG", SAID IT WILL NO
LONGER MAKE THE BANNERS.
MEANWHILE, HUNDREDS OF
DEMONSTRATORS GATHERED IN
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA,
DEMANDING THE FLAG'S REMOVAL
FROM STATE CAPITOL GROUNDS.
>> WE ARE ASKING RIGHT NOW THAT
EVERY MEMBER OF THE SENATE,
EVERY MEMBER OF THE HOUSE, WOULD
DECIDE TO MAKE THIS DAY, THIS
DAY, THE DAY THAT THE FLAG COMES
DOWN.
>> Ifill: STATE LEGISLATORS TOOK
INITIAL STEPS TOWARD CONSIDERING
BILLS TO MOVE THE FLAG TO A
MUSEUM.
WE'LL HEAR ABOUT RELATED STEPS
IN OTHER STATES, AND ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENS NEXT, AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
>> Woodruff: THE SENATE MOVED TO
THE BRINK TODAY OF GIVING
PRESIDENT OBAMA A MAJOR WIN ON
TRADE.
SUPPORTERS WON A KEY PROCEDURAL
VOTE ON A "FAST TRACK" BILL,
MAKING IT EASIER TO PUSH TRADE
AGREEMENTS THROUGH CONGRESS.
IT WOULD CLEAR THE WAY FOR AN
ASIAN TRADE PACT.
BY 60 TO 37, SENATORS SENT THE
BILL TOWARD FINAL CONGRESSIONAL
APPROVAL TOMORROW.
BUT, THE DEBATE CONTINUED EVEN
AFTER THE VOTE.
>> IT WILL INDICATE AMERICA'S
BACK IN THE TRADE BUSINESS.
IT WILL ALSO SEND A MESSAGE TO
OUR ALLIES THAT WE UNDERSTAND
THEY'RE SOMEWHAT WARY ABOUT
CHINESE COMMERCIAL AND
POTENTIALLY MILITARY DOMINATION
AND THAT WE INTEND TO STILL BE
DEEPLY INVOLVED IN THE PACIFIC.
>> Woodruff: CONGRESS IS ALSO
>> THIS IS AN IMPORTANT DAY IN
THIS COUNTRY FOR SURE BECAUSE
THEY HAVE ANOTHER
CORPORATE-SPONSORED TRADE
AGREEMENT THAT WILL MEAN MORE
MONEY IN SOME INVESTORS'
POCKETS.
IT WILL MEAN MORE PLANT CLOSINGS
IN OHIO AND ARIZONA AND DELAWARE
AND RHODE ISLAND AND WEST
VIRGINIA AND MAINE AND ALL OVER
THIS COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: CONGRESS IS ALSO
WORKING ON A SEPARATE MEASURE TO
AID THOSE WHO LOSE JOBS TO
IMPO
AND THE WHITE HOUSE WOULD NOT
SAY TODAY IF HE WILL SIGN ONE
WITHOUT THE OTHER.
>> Ifill: THE ADMINISTRATION IS
READY TO RELENT ON HOSTAGE
POLICY, AND LET FAMILIES PAY
RANSOM TO TERROR GROUPS.
THAT'S WIDELY REPORTED TO BE
PART OF A BROAD REVISION SET FOR
RELEASE TOMORROW.
FAMILIES OF AMERICANS KILLED BY
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS SAY
THEY'VE BEEN THREATENED WITH
PROSECUTION FOR PURSUING
RANSOMS.
>> Woodruff: IN SYRIA, KURDISH
FIGHTERS PUSHED EVEN CLOSER
TODAY TO THE ISLAMIC STATES DE
FACTO CAPITAL.
KURDISH FORCES, BACKED BY U.S.
AIR STRIKES, CAPTURED A MILITARY
BASE AND A KEY TOWN JUST 30
STRONGHOLD.
THE MILITANTS RESPONDED WITH AN
AUDIO MESSAGE THAT PROMISED
THEIR ULTIMATE VICTORY.
>> Ifill: U.N. OFFICIALS SAY THE
BATTLE WITH ISIS IN IRAQ HAS
DRIVEN MORE THAN THREE MILLION
PEOPLE FROM THEIR HOMES.
THE SUNNI MILITANTS MADE A
LIGHTNING ADVANCE ACROSS
NORTHERN IRAQ LAST SUMMER,
FORCING MANY SHIITES AND OTHER
MINORITIES TO FLEE FOR THEIR
LIVES.
>> Woodruff: A HEAT WAVE
SCORCHING PAKISTAN'S
LARGEST CITY HAS NOW KILLED MORE
THAN 620 PEOPLE, SINCE THE
WEEKEND.
HUNDREDS OF PATIENTS CROWDED
HOSPITALS IN KARACHI TODAY,
SUFFERING FROM HEAT EXHAUSTION.
AS TEMPERATURES TOPPED 110
DEGREES, POWER OUTAGES LEFT
PEOPLE DESPERATE AND ANGRY.
>> (translated): THE
GOVERNMENT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR
THIS WHOLE CRISIS.
THE HOUSES ARE DEPRIVED OF
POWER.
THERE IS NO ICE AVAILABLE IN THE
MARKET.
THE HEAT IS UNBEARABLE.
PEOPLE, ESPECIALLY THE ELDERLY
PEOPLE ARE DYING OF INTENSE
HEAT.
THE GOVERNMENT IS NOT THINKING
OF A SOLUTION.
>> Woodruff: THE ANGER HAS SENT
MOBS INTO THE STREET, PROTESTING
THE OUTAGES AND LACK OF WATER.
>> Ifill: RESCUES OF MIGRANTS IN
THE MEDITERRANEAN SOARED IN THE
LAST 24 HOURS, WITH MORE THAN
2,700 PEOPLE BROUGHT ASHORE.
SHIPS FROM SEVERAL EUROPEAN
COUNTRIES TOOK PART IN
OPERATIONS OFF THE COAST OF
LIBYA.
THE ITALIAN COAST GUARD SAYS
THEY WENT TO THE AID OF 18
DIFFERENT BOATS.
WE'LL HAVE A REPORT ON THE WAVE
OF MIGRANTS REACHING GREECE,
LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
>> Woodruff: A WARNING TODAY
FROM THE U.N. CHILDREN'S AGENCY:
MILLIONS OF CHILDREN STILL FACE
HUNGER, DISEASE AND DEATH,
DESPITE UNPRECEDENTED ECONOMIC
GROWTH.
"UNICEF" SAYS CHILDREN IN POOR
NATIONS ARE NEARLY TWICE AS
LIKELY TO DIE BEFORE THEY TURN
FIVE.
IT WARNS THAT WITHOUT GLOBAL
ACTION, ANOTHER 68 MILLION
CHILDREN UNDER FIVE WILL DIE BY
2030, MOSTLY FROM PREVENTABLE
CAUSES.
>> Ifill: ON WALL STREET TODAY,
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 24 POINTS TO CLOSE ABOVE
18,140.
THE NASDAQ ROSE SIX POINTS.
AND THE S-AND-P ADDED JUST ONE
POINT.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR:
SYMBOLS OF HERITAGE AND HATE IN
THE SOUTH;
ENDING A "CULTURE OF VIOLENCE"
AT RIKERS ISLAND IN NEW YORK;
MIGRANTS OVERRUN A GREEK ISLAND
AS THEY MAKE THEIR WAY TO
EUROPE;
REGULATING HOW POLITICAL
CAMPAIGNS USE ROBOCALLS;
A NEW FILM DOCUMENTS ONE
CASUALTY OF STAND YOUR GROUND
LAWS;
AND, STORIES NOT TRENDING ON
EDUCATION AND HUMAN RIGHTS.
>> Wooduff: THE WAVE OF
REACTIONS TO THE CONFEDERATE
FLAG TODAY REACHED INTO STATE
CAPITOLS ACROSS THE SOUTH.
THE GOVERNORS OF VIRGINIA AND
NORTH CAROLINA BOTH CALLED FOR
TAKING THE CONFEDERATE FLAG OFF
SPECIAL-ORDER LICENSE PLATES.
U.S. SENATE MAJORITY LEADER
MITCH MCCONNELL OF KENTUCKY SAID
A STATUE OF JEFFERSON DAVIS
SHOULD BE TAKEN OUT OF THE STATE
CAPITOL ROTUNDA.
AND IN MISSISSIPPI, THE STATE
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE CALLED FOR
THE REMOVAL OF THE CONFEDERATE
EMBLEM FROM THE STATE FLAG.
WE LOOK NOW AT THE SOUTH OF
WE USE THIS MOMENT TO TAKE A
LOOK AT THE SOUTH OF TODAY WITH
RUSSELL MOORE, THE PRESIDENT OF
THE SOUTHERN BAPTIST
RUSSELL MOORE IS THE PRESIDENT
OF THE SOUTHERN BAPTIST
CONVENTION'S ETHICS & LIBERTY
COMMISSION.
JACK HUNTER IS A RADIO HOST AND
BLOGGER WHO HAS USED THE
IDENTITY "THE SOUTHERN AVENGER".
AND FROM ATLANTA IS ISABELLA
WILKERSON, THE PULITZER-PRIZE
WINNING AUTHOR OF "THE WARMTH OF
OTHER SUNS" ABOUT SOUTHERN BLACK
MIGRATION.
WE WELCOME ALL THREE OF YOU TO
THE PROGRAM.
WILSON -- RUSSELL MOORE, LET ME
START WITH YOU.
WHAT ROLE DOES THE CONFEDERATE
FLAG PLAY IN THE IDENTITY OF THE
SOUTH TODAY DO YOU BELIEVE?
>> I THINK CONFEDERATE BATTLE
FLAG IS A SYMBOL THAT CAUSES A
GREAT DEAL OF DIVISION AND
REMINDS US OF A HURTFUL LEGACY
AND PAST.
I THINK PEOPLE SEE IT IN
DIFFERENT WAYS.
WHAT SOME PEOPLE SEE IN THE
CONFEDERATE FLAG IS A SENSE OF
SOUTHERN ASSERTION THAT THE
SOUTH MATTS.ER
SO FOR INSTANCE I WAS AT A
CONFERENCE ONE TIME WHERE THE
SPEAKER, EVERY TIME HE WOULD
REFERENCE SAYING SOMETHING
IGNORANT, WOULD DO IT IN A
SOUTHERN ACCENT.
I THINK THERE ARE SOME
SOUTHERNERS, BLACK AND WHITE,
WHO FEEL AS THOUGH THE REST OF
THE COUNTRY LOOKS DOWN ON THE
SOUTH AS UNEDUCATED AND
BACKWARD, AND FOR SOME PEOPLE
THAT WAS A SIMILAR BALANCE OF
DEFIANCE AGAINST THAT, BUT IT'S
REALLY CLEAR THE WAY THE
CONFEDERATE BATTLE FLAG HAS BEEN
USED, NOT ONLY INITIALLY IN
TERMS OF THE CONFED RAL STATES
OF AMERICA, BUT IN OUR MORE
RECENT HISTORY IN TERMS OF
TERRORIST ACTS AGAINST
AFRICAN-AMERICANS, THAT THIS IS
A SYMBOL THAT CAUSES UNNECESSARY
DIVISION.
>> Woodruff: JACK HUNTER, YOU
WROTE THAT YOU USED TO BELIEVE
IT WAS POSSIBLE TO THINK OF THE
CONFEDERATE FLAG NOT HAVING TO
DO WITH RACISM, BUT YOU NO
LONGER THINK THAT'S POSSIBLE.
WHY IS THAT?
WHY HAVE YOU CHANGEED?
>> BECAUSE IT'S NOT POSSIBLE.
FIRST OF ALL.
THAT'S THE MISTAKE A LOT OF
CONFEDERATE FLAG DEFENDERS MAKE,
PART OF WHAT RUSSELL WAS SAYING.
THEY SAY IT'S ABOUT STATE'S
RIGHT, THEY SAY IT'S ABOUT
HERITAGE.
THEY SAY IT'S ABOUT EVERYTHING
YOU CAN POSSIBLY IMAGINE THAT'S
HONORABLE AND GOOD AND DECENT
WHILE IGNORING THE VAST HISTORY
OF RACIAL TERRORISM FROM SLAVERY
TO THE SAMAJ TOJUA KU KLUX KLANW
TO A DERANGED MAN WALKING INTO A
CHURCH IN MY TOWN OF SOUTH
CAROLINA AND MURDERING NINE
PEOPLE IN COLD BLOOD FOR THE
CIATED WITH THESKIN.
SOUTHERN FLAG.
THIS IS A WAKE-UP CALL FOR THE
NATION AND THE SOUTH AND MAYBE
CHARLESTON WHERE THIS ALL
STARTED THAT THAT SYMBOL DOES IN
THE MEAN TO MOST AMERICANS WHAT
IT MEANS TO THE PEOPLE WHO
ADMIRE IT MOST.
AND THE PEOPLE WHO DO ADMIRE IT
ARE PROBABLY SMALLER THAN EVER,
AND THE PEOPLE WHO FEEL
NEGATIVELY TOWARD THE
CONFEDERATE FLAG ARE PROBABLY
LARGER THAN EVER.
IT'S TIME TO MOVE ON.
IT'S TIME FOR THE FLAG TO COME
DOWN.
IT JUST DOESN'T REPRESENT WHO WE
ARE AS A PEOPLE, AS AMERICANS
ANYMORE.
>>
>> Woodruff: ISABELLA
WILKERSON, I WOULDN'T ASK YOU TO
SPEAK FOR ALL AFRICAN-AMERICANS
IN THE SOUTH, BUT HOW DO YOU,
YOUR FAMILY MEMBERS, PEOPLE
CLOSE TO YOU, HOW HAVE YOU
LOOKED UPON THE CONFEDERATE
SYMBOL?
>> AS YOUR OTHER GUEST HAS
INDICATED, IT'S A SYMBOL OF
SUBYOU IMMIGRATION, PAIN AND
TERROR FOR GENERATIONS.
I THINK MANY PEOPLE IN OUR
COUNTRY, WE DON'T THINK ABOUT
HOW LONG THIS INSTITUTION WAS IN
PLACE.
IT WAS IN PLACE FOR 12
GENERATIONS.
I MEAN, IMAGINE HOW MANY GREATS
YOU WOULD HAVE TO AID TO
GRANDPARENT IN ORDER TO COVER
THAT MANY FAMILIES, GENERATION
AFTER GENERATION.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
AFRICAN AMERICANS ARE STILL
DEALING WITH TO THIS DAY.
WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT THIS VERY
BASIC EFFORT TO TRY TO TRACE
ONE'S GENEALOGY, YOU COME TO A
STOP AS AN AFRICAN AMERICAN IN
THIS COUNTRY FOR MOST AFRICAN
AMERICANS WHEN IT COMES TO
ENSLAVEMENT.
THAT'S HOW AFRICAN AMERICANS
STILL DEAL WITH THIS TO THIS
DAY.
THIS IS ACTUALLY QUITE REAL.
AND IT'S VERY PERSONAL FOR MANY
PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: RUSSELL MOORE,
WHAT DO YOU THINK IT MEANS IF
THE FLAG IS NO LONGER GOING TO
BE A PROMINENT OR EVEN A PARTIAL
SYMBOL OF THE HISTORY OF THE
SOUTH, THE STORY OF THE
CONFEDERACY?
>> WELL, I DON'T THINK THAT THE
STORY GOES AWAY.
WE HAVE TO REMEMBER OUR PAST
SINS AS WELL AS OUR PAST GLORIES
AS A REGION AND AS A COUNTRY.
WHAT I DO THINK IT MEANS IS THAT
THE SOUTH RECOGNIS NZEOW
STARTING TO RECOGNIZE NOW THE
DARKNESS OF SOME OF THAT PAST
AND ALSO THE FACT THAT THE SOUTH
DOESN'T JUST INCLUDE WHITE
PEOPLE.
SOUTHERNERS, TO SAY THAT ONE IS
A SOUTHERNER DOES NOT SIMPLY
MEAN THAT ONE IS A WHITE
SOUTHERNER.
WE HAVE GREAT DIVERSITY IN THE
SOUTH.
AND SO WE CARE A LOT ABOUT
FAMILY IN THE SOUTH, AND I THINK
WHAT'S HAPPENING IS NOT THAT
WE'RE KICKING ANYBODY OUT OF THE
FAMILY REUNION.
WE'RE SAYING THAT ROBERT E. LEE
IS PART OF OUR STORY, BUT SO IS
MARTIN LUTHER KING.
STONEWALL JACKSON IS PART OF OUR
STORY.
THAT'S AN IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENT
AND ONE WE SHOULD ENCOURAGE.
>> Woodruff: JACK HUNTER, IS
IT POSSIBLE TO STILL APPRECIATE
THE HISTORY OR TO HAVE ANY
APPRECIATION OF THE HISTORY, THE
HERITAGE OF THE ROLE OF THE
CONFEDERACY AND AT THE SAME TIME
TRY TO HAVE AN IDEA THAT IS
FRANKLY THAT HONORS TODAY THE
ROLE THAT AFRICAN AMERICANS PLAY
IN THE SOUTH?
>> SURE.
THOSE HAVE COEXISTED FOR A LONG
TIME.
THE QUESTION IS WHAT SORT OF
TREATMENT SHOULD THEY RECEIVE
THAT'S MORE RESPECTFUL TO THE
MAJORITY.
SORT OF COMING FROM THAT
BACKGROUND WHERE I DEFENDED THAT
SYMBOL FOR SO MANY YEARS, I
THINK IT'S SUCH A SHAME THAT
PEOPLE ARE SO MUCH MORE WORRIED
ABOUT BEING RIGHT THAN BEING
DECENT.
AND THAT'S WHAT A LOT OF THIS
COMES DOWN.
TO THEY WANT TO BE RIGHT.
THEY WANT TO MAKE THEIR POINT
ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED ON A CERTAIN
HISTORICAL DATE AND YOU DON'T
UNDERSTAND THIS.
I WOULD, YOU KNOW, TELL ANYBODY
TODAY, IF MY FELLOW WHITE
SOUTHERNERS WHO STILL DEFEND
THAT SYMBOL, YOU DON'T HAVE THE
RIGHTS TO TELL A BLACK AMERICAN
THAT THEY DON'T UNDERSTAND WHAT
THAT SYMBOL MEANS.
IT MEANS SOMETHING DIFFERENT TO
THEM THAN IT MEANS TO YOU.
I THINK THAT'S PART OF THE
CONVERSATION WE'RE SEEING IN
CHARLESTON RIGHT NOW.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU BELIEVE
THAT'S CHANGING?
>> I DO.
I THINK IT'S FOR THE BETTER.
IT WON'T BE OVERNIGHT, BUT THIS
MIGHT BE A HISTORICAL MOMENT
RIGHT NOW WHAT WE'RE SEEING.
THIS TRAGEDY, IF THERE IS A
SILVER LINING.
I'M FROM CHARLESTON, SOUTH
CAROLINA.
I WAS NOT... I WAS VERY HAPPY
BUT NOT SHOCKED TO SEE PEOPLE
COMING TOGETHER IN MY HOMETOWN,
AND I THINK MAYBE WE CAN DO THAT
AS A NATION.
I THINK WE'RE CHANGING THE
NATIONAL CONVERSATION.
>> Woodruff: ISABELLA
WILKERSON, WHAT DO YOU SEE WHEN
YOU LOOK AT THE SOUTH AND YOU
BEGIN TO TAKE THE CONFEDERACY
CLEARLY AS PART OF THE HISTORY,
BUT WHEN YOU TAKE HONORING THE
CONFEDERACY, YOU BEGIN THE TAKE
THAT OUT OF THE SOUTH AND THE
PICTURE OF THE SOUTH TODAY?
>> WELL, I THINK WE'RE AT A
KARMIC MOMENT FOR THE SOUTH, BUT
FOR OUR COUNTRY AS A WHOLE.
YOU THINK ABOUT THE LAST FOUR
YEARS IN WHICH HISTORICALLY
SPEAKING WE'VE BEEN
COMMEMORATING THE SEN TEN CAL OF
THE SIEVE WAR.
SOUTH CAROLINA WAS FIRST STATE
TO SI SEED FROM THE UNION.
SOUTH CAROLINA WAS WHERE THE
FIRST SHOTS WERE FIRED, AND THIS
PAST WEEK THE MASSACRE AT MOTHER
EMANUEL A.M.E. CHURCH OCCURRED
ON THE NIGHT BEFORE JUNETEENTH,
WHICH IS A SACRED DAY FOR
AFRICAN AMERICANS, THE DAY WHEN
THE LAST ENSLAVED PEOPLE WERE
SET FREE IN TEXAS, WHICH WAS TWO
AND A HALF YEARS AFTER THE
EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.
SO THIS HISTORY IS INESCAPABLE.
IT SEEMS AS IF WE'RE COMING FULL
CIRCLE.
AND THE HISTORY AND AS IT'S
PLAYING ITSELF OUT, EVEN KNOW,
SEEMS TO BE INEVITABLE.
>> Woodruff: RUSSELL MORE, FOR
THOSE WHO SAY, I THINK YOU
POINTED OUT A MINUTE AGO, WHAT
HAPPENED DURING THE CIVIL WAR,
THE CONFEDERACY IS A PART OF
SOUTHERN HISTORY.
WHAT DO YOU SAY TO THOSE WHO
SAY, I DON'T WANT TO FORGET
THAT.
IT'S STILL THERE.
>> WELL, I THINK WE CAN REMEMBER
A PAST WITHOUT CENTRAL
ALREADYIZING PARTS OF OUR PAST
THAT WE OUGHT TO SEE AS WRONG.
I HEARD SOMEONE SAY THAT CONCERN
OVER THE FLAG IS SENSITIVITY TO
MICROAGGRESSIONS, TO WHICH MY
RESPONSE IS TO SAY THAT
KIDNAPPING AND ENSLAVING PEOPLE,
BREAKING UP FAMILIES,
TERRORIZING FAMILIES, IF THAT'S
NOT A MACROAGGRESSION, I DON'T
KNOW WHAT IS.
AND THE BATTLE FLAG SYMBOLIZES
THAT, AND SYMBOLS.
MATTER.
REMEMBER THE DEBATE ABOUT
BURNING THE AMERICAN FLAG.
BURNING AN AMERICAN FLAG DOES
SOMETHING, IT COMMUNICATES
SOMETHING.
AND SO I THINK WE CAN REMEMBER
OUR HISTORY.
WE HAVE TO, OR ELSE WE WILL FALL
RIGHT BACK INTO THE SAME
PATTERNS, BUT TO DO SO IN A WAY
THAT UNDERSTANDS WE COME FROM A
FALLEN PEOPLE ALL OF US, AND AS
A CHRISTIAN, THE BIGGEST PROBLEM
WITH MY FAMILY TREE IS NOT
JEFFERSON DAVIS, IT'S ADAM.
I BELIEVE THAT WE'RE ALL CREATED
IN THE IMAGE OF GOD AND WE'RE
ALL FALLEN SINNERS.
I THINK WE CAN RECOGNIZE THAT AS
WE LOOK BACK WARD IN HISTORY.
>> Woodruff: JACK HUNTER, HOW
SHOULD THE REST OF THE COUNTRY
LOOK UPON THE SOUTH?
>> RIGHT NOW THEY SHOULD LOOK AT
US WITH SOME OPT SIMILAR.
I CAN'T THINK OF A TIDE CHANGE
ON THIS ISSUE OR ANYTHING EVEN
REMOTELY CLOSE IT TO IN THE LAST
FEW DECADES.
AND I THINK THAT'S ENCOURAGING.
I THINK THAT MORE SOUTHERNERS
THAN EVER ARE UNDERSTANDING THE
SYMBOL DOES NOT REPRESENT A
COUNTRY, DOESN'T REPRESENT THE
REGION IN THE WAY IT SHOULD,
THAT DOES NOT MEAN YOU CAN'T
HONOR YOUR ANCESTORS WHO FOUGHT
FOR A POLITICAL BATTLE THAT IS
IMPORTANT, THAT DOES NOT MEAN
THAT, BUT IT DOES MEAN THAT YOU
CANNOT SAY THE SYMBOL REPRESENTS
EVERYONE.
THAT'S WHAT I THINK PEOPLE ARE
SEEING HAPPENING IN THE SOUTH
TODAY.
>> ISABEL WILKERSON, THE REST OF
THE COUNTRY, HOW SHOULD THEY BE
LOOKING AT THE SOUTH RIGHT NOW?
>> I THINK THE SOUTH, WE SHOULD
REMEMBER A VITAL AND IMPORTANT
PART OF THE REST OF THE COUNTRY,
AND THE COUNTRY LOOKS TO THE
SOUTH, ONE WOULD HOPE, FOR
HOPEFULLY ANSWERS TO HOW TO DEAL
WITH THIS ENDURING, ANCIENT
QUESTION, THESE TENSIONS AND
CONFLICTS THAT HAVE CAST A CLOUD
OVER US FOR SO LONG.
AND IT WOULD JUST BE SO
WONDERFUL IF THE ANSWERS COULD
ACTUALLY COME FROM THE SOUTH
ITSELF.
>> Woodruff: WE THANK YOU ALL
THREE FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW, TO "BROKEN
JUSTICE," OUR SERIES ON THE
CHANGING ATTITUDES ABOUT THE
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM AND HOW
WE DETAIN AND PUNISH PEOPLE IN
AMERICA.
THE CITY OF NEW YORK HAS
ANNOUNCED IT WILL ENACT SWEEPING
REFORMS AT RIKERS ISLAND, THE
COUNTRY'S SECOND-LARGEST JAIL.
THIS FOLLOWS A CLASS ACTION
LAWSUIT OVER INMATE ABUSES.
THE CHANGES INCLUDE:
A NEW FEDERAL MONITOR TO OVERSEE
THE JAIL;
NEW GUIDELINES FOR THE TREATMENT
OF TEENAGED INMATES;
REVISED POLICIES ON WHEN GUARDS
CAN USE FORCE AGAINST INMATES;
AND THE INSTALLATION OF 7,800
NEW SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS.
THE FACE OF MANY OF THESE
REFORMS HAS BECOME KALIEF
BROWDER, A FORMER RIKERS INMATE,
WHO AT THE AGE OF 16, WAS
ACCUSED IN 2010 OF STEALING A
BACKPACK.
HELD AT RIKERS FOR MORE THAN A
THOUSAND DAYS WITHOUT A TRIAL
BEFORE HE WAS RELEASED.
HE NEVER RECOVERED FROM WHAT
TURNED INTO A BRUTAL DETENTION,
AND COMMITTED SUICIDE EARLIER
THIS MONTH.
JENNIFER GONNERMAN IS A STAFF
WRITER FOR THE NEW YORKER
MAGAZINE.
SHE PROFILED BROWDER DURING HIS
THREE YEARS IN JAIL AND HAS BEEN
REPORTING ON RIKERS FOR MORE
THAN A DECADE.
JENNIFER GONNERMAN, EXPLAIN HOW
KALIEF BROWDER, AFTER YEARS OF
DETENTION, HOW DID HE BECOME THE
FACE OF THIS STORY.
>> I MEDICAL CAL EARLY -- I
MET KALIEF AND WROTE A PROFILE
ABOUT HIM FOR "THE NEW YORKER"
WHICH RAN LAST OCTOBER.
ONE THING THAT DREW ME TO
KALIEF'S STORY IS THE FACT THAT
ALMOST EVERYTHING THAT COULD GO
WRONG IN THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM HAD HAPPENED TO HIM.
YOU MENTIONED SOME OF THE
THINGS, BUT HE WAS IN JAIL, IN
RIKERS ISLAND FOR THREE YEARS
WAITING FOR A TRIAL THAT NEVER
HAPPENED.
ULTIMATELY THE CHARGES AGAINST
HIM WERE DROPPED.
HE ENDURED ABUSE BY INMATES AND
GUARDS.
HE SPENT ABOUT TWO YEARS IN
SOLITARY CONFINEMENT.
HIS STORY IS EXTRAORDINARY IN
THE DETAILS OF HOW HORRIFIC IT
WAS.
AND AS YOU MENTIONED IN THE
INTRODUCTION EARLIER THIS MONTH,
HE COMMITTED SUICIDE AT HOME
HERE IN THE BRONX IN NEW YORK
CITY.
>> Ifill: YOU WERE ABLE TO GET
HOLD OF SOME SURVEILLANCE
FOOTAGE FROM INSIDE THE PRISON,
WHICH SHOWS KALIEF BROWDER AS
THE TARGET OF SOME OF THESE
ATTACKS.
WE WANT TO PLAY A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT THAT.
BUT I WANT YOU TO TALK ABOUT THE
CULTURAL VIOLENCE WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT HERE IN THIS PARTICULAR
VIDEO WE SEE HIM WALKING WITH A
GUARD WHO FOR NO APPARENT REASON
BEGINS TO ASSAULT HIM.
>> RIGHT.
YOU KNOW, ABUSE AT RIKERS ISLAND
HAS BEEN A PROBLEM FOR A VERY
LONG TIME, BUT IT'S GOTTEN MUCH,
MUCH WORSE IN THE PAST DECADE.
THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE SEEING AT
PLAY IN THE VIDEO, WHERE YOU
HAVE AN OFFICER SUPPOSEDLY JUST
ESCORTING KALIEF TO THE SHOWER
BUT INSTEAD THROWS HIM TO THE
GROUND.
AND FOR THAT TRANSGRESSION WAS
NEVER ACTUALLY PUNISHED, DESPITE
THE FACT THAT WE HAVE THIS VIDEO
UP ON "THE NEW YORKER"'S WEB
SITE IN APRIL WHEN OTHER
REPORTERS WERE CALLING THE
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTION TO ASK
WHAT WAS HAPPENING TO THIS
OFFICER, THEY WERE MERELY SAYING
HE WAS BEING "RETRAINED.
".
>> Ifill: HOW DOES THE SEM
REACHED BETWEEN THE CITY OF NEW
YORK AND THE U.S. ATTORNEY, HOW
DOES IT BEGIN TO ADDRESS THESE
PROBLEMS, ESPECIALLY FOR
TEENAGERS AND FOR THE MENTALLY
ILL?
>> YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE THINGS
ABOUT THIS AGREEMENT, WHICH IS
REALLY QUITE HISTORIC, IS HOW
INCREDIBLY SWEEPING IT IS.
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE JOINED
UP WITH THE LAWSUIT BROUGHT BY
THE LEGAL AID SOCIETY HERE IN
NEW YORK AND A COUPLE PRIVATE
LAW FIRM, AND WHILE LEGAL AID
HAS BEEN SUING THE CITY OVER
CONDITIONS IN ITS JAILS FOR TWO
OR THREE DECADES, THIS IS THE
FIRST TIME THAT THEY HAVE COME
TO AN AGREEMENT THAT AFFECTS
EVERY JAIL IN THE SYSTEM, EVERY
INMATE IN THE SYSTEM THAT'S
SWEEPING IN SCOPE AND SO
DETAILED AND SO FOR THAT REASON
IT'S QUITE HISTORIC IN GIVING
HOPE TO SOME PEOPLE THAT MAYBE
REAL REFORMS AND LASTING REFORMS
MIGHT ACTUALLY HAPPEN THIS TIME
AROUND.
>> Ifill: BUT IN REALITY, HOW
DOES ONE TRACK THE USE OF FORCE.
OBVIOUSLY A LOT OF CAMERAS, A
LOT OF VIDEOS LIKE WE SAW, BUT
PERHAPS MORE.
>> DOESN'T SOMEONE HAVE TO
FOLLOW UP?
>> EXACTLY.
THAT'S ONE OF THE MOST
DISTURBING THINGS.
THIS VIDEO WHERE IT SHOWS THE
OFFICER THROWING KALIEF TO THE
GROUND.
YOU KNOW, THAT VIDEO IS
OBVIOUSLY SHOT BY A CITY CAMERA.
SURVEILLANCE CAMERA INSIDE.
I WAS INSIDE THE SOLITARY
CONFINEMENT UNIT ON RIKERS
ISLAND, AND YET NOTHING
HAPPENED, EVEN THOUGH, AS YOU
SAY, EVEN THOUGH THE VIDEO
EXISTS, SOMEBODY HAS THE WATCH
IT.
SOMEBODY HAS TO TAKE ACTION AND
MAKE SURE THAT JUSTICE IS
BROUGHT IN EACH AND EVERY ONE OF
THESE CASES, AND THAT'S OFTEN
WHERE THINGS FALL DOWN.
>> Ifill: ISN'T THAT THE POINT
OF HAVING A FEDERAL MONITOR TO
OVERSEE RIKERS IS ABOUT?
>> EXACTLY.
IT'S LONG OVERDUE THAT WE HAVE
MORE OUTSIDE EYES, YOU KNOW, THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT GETTING
INVOLVED AND REALLY PAYING VERY
CLOSE ATTENTION TO WHAT'S GOING
ON IN RIKERS ISLAND.
PART OF THE REASON WHY THINGS
GOT AS BAD AS THEY DID IS THAT
PEOPLE JUST WEREN'T PAYING
ATTENTION, WHETHER
POLICY-MAKERS, GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS, EVEN THE MEDIA GOING
BACK SEVERAL YEARS JUST RIKERS
WAS NOT ON PEOPLE'S RADAR.
THINGS WERE PERMITTED TO GET
VERY, VERY BAD.
>> Ifill: THE U.S. ATTORNEY
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT IN NEW
YORK, WHO WAS THE ONE WHO WORKED
OUT THE SETTLEMENT WITH THE
CITY, HE LIKEDDEN THE CONDITIONS
INSIDE LIKERS TO A "LORD OF THE
IES"FL ENVIRONMENT.
WAS HIS INVOLVEMENT WHAT TURNED
THIS INTO WHAT IT IS NOW?
>> I THINK THAT'S DEFINITELY
TRUE.
LAST AUGUST THE U.S. ATTORNEY
RELEASED A REPORT ABOUT THE
CONDITIONS IN THE ADOLESCENT
JAIL ON RIKERS ISLAND, WHICH WAS
A 79-PAGE REPORT AND IT WAS
ABSOLUTELY BLISTERING.
I'D NEVER ACTUALLY READ A
GOVERNMENT REPORT THAT WAS AS
DAMNING AS THIS ONE AND WENT
INTO GREAT DETAIL ABOUT THE
ABUSES THAT 16, 17 YEAR OLDS, 18
YEAR OLDS WERE ENDURING ON
RIKERS ISLAND.
AND THAT'S THE FIRST STEP IN
THIS PROCESS.
AT THAT TIME IT DIDN'T SOUND
LIKE THE U.S. ATTORNEY WAS GOING
TO BRING A LAWSUIT AGAINST NEW
YORK CITY.
BUT THINGS GOT WORSE AND WORSE.
AND THAT'S WHAT THEY ULTIMATELY
DID, JOIN IN THIS OTHER CLASS
ACTION LAWSUIT THAT LEGAL AID
HAD.
AND THAT'S WHERE WE ARE TODAY.
MONTHS LATER WITH THIS NEW LEGAL
AGREEMENT, AND THAT'S EXACTLY
WHY I THINK HIS INVOLVEMENT IS
WHY THIS IS GOT THE BEST CHANCE
OF REFORM YET.
>> YOUR REPORTING CERTAINLY MADE
A DIFFERENCE, AS WELL.
JENNIFER GONNERMAN, AS A NEW
YORKER, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Wooduff: IN ATHENS TODAY,
GREEK PRIME MINISTER ALEXIS
TSIPRAS WAS FORCED TO DEFEND
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN BUDGET
SAVINGS THAT HE OFFERED IN TALKS
WITH THE COUNTRY'S CREDITORS.
SOME IN HIS OWN PARTY ACCUSE THE
LEADER OF CAVING IN TO PRESSURE
FOR MORE AUSTERITY.
THE NATION FACES THE PROSPECT OF
BANKRUPTCY IF A DEAL WITH
LENDERS ISN'T REACHED BY JUNE
30TH.
AS IF THAT'S NOT ENOUGH, GREECE
HAS ALSO BEEN HIT WITH ANOTHER
CRISIS, WHICH IS STRAINING ITS
SCARCE RESOURCES EVEN FURTHER.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT MALCOLM
BRABANT EXPLAINS IN THIS REPORT
FROM ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S FAMED
ISLANDS.
>> Reporter: ON THE ISLAND
JUST FOUR MILES FROM THE TURKISH
COAST, IT FEELS LIKE THE WORLD
IS EMPTYING AND WALKING IN THIS
DIRECTION.
>> HI.
>> Reporter: THE EXODUS IS
PROPELLED BY WAR, TYRANNY,
PERSETIONCU AND POVERTY.
THE MAGNETIC PULL OF EUROPEAN
PROSPERITY AND PEACE IS
IMPOSSIBLE TO RESIST.
SOON HOSTILITY AND REJECTION
WILL TEMPER THE EMOTION OF A
SAFE LANDFALL.
BUT FOR THE MOMENT, EUPHORIA
VALIDATES THE EXORBITANT ONE-WAY
TICKET.
>> MOSTLY AFGHANIS, TOOK ABOUT
25 MINUTES TO COME ACROSS.
MAINLY FIVE OR SIX CHILDREN.
THAT BOAT, THERE WAS ABOUT 50
PEOPLE.
SO IT WOULD BE $50,000 AMERICAN
U.S. DOLLARS.
IT'S $1,000 A HEAD FOR THE
TRAFFICKERS.
>> Reporter: DAWN COMPELLED AN
ENGLISH EXILE TO SHEPHERD A
ONE-WAY TIDE TOWARD A NETWORK OF
HELPING HANDS.
>> ONE DAY WE HAD 11 BOATS ON
THIS BEACH ALONE.
I JUST LOOK AFTER A SMALL BIT OF
COASTLINE.
THAT MORNING OVER HALF A MILLION
DOLLARS JUST ON THESE BEACHES
HERE IN A COUPLE HOURS.
>> Reporter: SINCE THE START
OF THE YEAR, AN ESTIMATED 25,000
MIGRANTS, A QUARTER OF ALL THOSE
ENTERING EUROPE ILLEGALLY, HAVE
LANDED ON THESE SHORES.
THE ISLAND HAS A POPULATION OF
90,000.
THE STRAIN IS COLOSSAL.
WHERE HAVE YOU COME FROM?
>> I COME FROM AFGHANISTAN.
THERE IS NO PEACE IN
AFGHANISTAN.
>> Reporter: HOW HAPPY ARE YOU
TO BE IN EUROPE?
>> I AM VERY HAPPY TO COME TO
EUROPE.
>> Reporter: BECAUSE?
>> BECAUSE THERE IS PEACE.
THERE IS A LOT OF EVERYTHING.
>> GO THERE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> IT'S TERRIBLE WHAT'S
HAPPENING TO THESE PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: THE FORMER MAYOR
OF THE TOWN.
>> I'M TRYING TO DIRECT THEM TO
GO TO THE PLACE WHERE USUALLY
PEOPLE, LOCAL PEOPLE HELP THEM.
THEY'LL PREPARE RIGHT NOW
SANDWICHES AND WATER AND OTHER
THINGS THEY'RE GOING TO GIVE
THEM.
THE SYMPATHY OF THE PEOPLE THAT
LOST THEIR COUNTRY, THE SYMPATHY
THAT I'LL HAVE FOR PEOPLE
HERE OR ANYBODY ELSE UNDER THESE
CONDITIONS, UNDER THE WAR THAT
IS HAPPENING THAT'S GOING ON.
THEY ARE FORCED TO LEAVE THE
COUNTRY.
THAT'S THE SYMPATHY THAT YOU
HAVE FOR THESE PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: BUT THESE ARE THE
WORST OF TIMES IN GREECE.
AS THE COUNTRY STRUGGLES WITH A
DEEPENING FINANCIAL CRISIS, NOT
EVERYONE SHARES THESE ISLANDS'
CULTURE OF UNCONDITIONAL
GENEROSITY TOWARD STRANGERS.
>> YOU GOT A FEW PEOPLE COMING
DOWN.
I THINK THEY'RE RIGHT WING.
ONE HERE IS LOOKING AT ME NOW.
>>>> Reporter: WHAT DO YOU THINK
OF THESE PEOPLE COMING IN HERE?
>> I DON'T KNOW.
>> Reporter: THE MAN ON THE
LATER BIKE LATER TOLD ME HE WAS
JUST A PART POLICEMAN CHECKING
OUT THE SITUATION.
AT THIS PORT, A PLEASURE BOAT
CAPTAIN IS WORRIED HIS
LIVELIHOOD WILL BE DAMAGED BY
TOURISTS CANCELING HOTEL
RESERVATIONS.
>> THAT'S MY BUSINESS.
I WOULD GIVE ANYTHING WE HAVE TO
THEM, BUT IT'S NOT MANY.
IT'S NOT ENOUGH.
>> Reporter: DO YOU GET THE
SENSE THAT PEOPLE ARE
UNCOMFORTABLE?
>> I THINK PRIMARILY IT'S THE
FIRST-TIME VISITORS WHO DON'T
WANT THE UNSIGHTLINESS AND THE
UNCERTAINTY, PARTICULARLY THE
MORAL UNCERTAINTY OF COMING TO A
SITUATION WHERE YOU HAVE ALL
THESE PEOPLE ARE STRUGGLING, SO,
YES, ABSOLUTELY A LOT OF PEOPLE
ARE SAYING, I DON'T WANT TO SEE
THIS SORT OF THING ON MY
HOLIDAY, BUT FOR VARIOUS
DIFFERENT MORAL AND SELFISH
REASONS.
THE IMPACT FOR TOURISTS
THEMSELVES I THINK IS ABSOLUTELY
MINIMAL.
FACE-TO-FACE, THERE IS NO DAMAGE
TO YOU.
THERE ARE NO THREATS TO YOU FROM
THESE PEOP ATLE ALL.
THESE PEOPLE WANT HELP.
THEY'RE NOT LOOKING TO GIVE YOU
ANY TROUBLE OR PROBLEMS.
>> Reporter: THE GREEK
AUTHORITIES FORCED THE MIGRANTS
TO WALK 40 MILES TO THE TOWN OF
MITILLINI TO BE REGISTERED AND
SENT ON TO ATHENS.
IN THE GREEK SUMMER HEAT IT'S
HARDEST ON THE CHILDREN.
THE NUMBERS LANDING HERE HAVE
GONE UP SIX-FOLD IN THE PAST FEW
MONTHS.
IT SOON BECOMES OBVIOUS WHERE
THESE PEOPLE HAVE COME FROM,
SYRIA.
[SPEAKING SYRIAN]
>> Reporter: ALTHOUGH MAJOR
RELIEF AGENCIES HAVE BEEN AWARE
FOR MONTHS THAT THIS IS A KEY
GATEWAY, THERE IS NO
INTERNATIONAL PRESENCE THE DEAL
WITH ONE OF HISTORY'S
BIGGEST-EVER REFUGEE CRISES.
>> THE MILITARY WANTED ME TO
KILL PEOPLE.
I TOLD THEM, I CANNOT DO THAT
BECAUSE I AM SYRIAN AND I KNOW
THAT ALL THOSE ARRIVING ARE
SYRIAN PEOPLE.
THEY GO FOR FREEDOM LIKE THIS.
THEY SAID, NO, THEY ARE FOREIGN,
YOU HAVE TO KILL THEM.
THEY ARE FROM AL QAEDA.
I TOLD THEM THEY ARE MY FAMILY.
I KNOW THEM.
>> Reporter: THIS MAN
REQUESTED THAT HIS IDENTITY BE
KEPT SECRET FOR HIS FAMILY'S
SAFETY.
>> I DON'T THINK ANY PEOPLE IN
THIS WORLD LEAVE LIKE THAT.
IN EUROPE, I HOPE PEACE.
THAT'S ALL.
THE PEACE FOR LIFE.
I AM HUMAN BEING.
>> Reporter: THIS RESEARCHER
COMES FROM SWEDEN, WHICH HAS AN
OPEN BORDERS POLICY AND HAS
PROMISED TO ACCEPT 100,000
SYRIAN REFUGEES A YEAR.
>> IT'S QUITE UNBELIEVABLE WHAT
TYPE OF BURDEN THEY HAVE LEFT
GREECE WITH.
I THINK IT'S... THIS IS A
EUROPEAN PROBLEM.
MOST OF THE PEOPLE WHO ARRIVE
HERE, THEY'RE JUST IN TRANSIT.
TY DOHEN'T WANT TO GO TO GREECE.
THEY WANT TO GO ON TO EUROPE.
AND THE EUROPEAN UNION COUNTRIES
AND THE EUROPAN LEEAD VERSE NOT
TAKETHEN RESPONSIBILITY THAT
THEY SHOULD.
>> Reporter: AT THIS TEMPORARY
CAMP RUB BY THE GREEK COAST
GUARD, EVERYONE IS CAMERA SHY.
THE REFUGEES AND THE AUTHORITIES
WHO ORDER ME TO STOP FILMING
BECAUSE I DON'T HAVE A PERMIT.
>> GET UP, GET UP!
GET UP!
UP!
>> Reporter: IN THIS PHONE
VIDEO, YOU CAN HEAR THE COAST
GUARD'S ANGER AS THEY GO THROUGH
THE CAMP WITH BATONS RAISED.
THE MIGRANTS BECOME AGITATED AS
THE ATMOSPHERE DEGENERATES.
I'VE BEEN SPOTTED AGAIN AND
ORDERED TO HEAVE.
WHAT'S HAPPENING BEHIND ME IS A
REAL SIGN OF THE TENSION ON THE
ISLAND.
BEHIND ME ARE ABOUT 300 OR 400
SYRIANS WHO HAVE RUN AWAY FROM A
TEMPORARY REFUGEE CAMP SAYING
THAT THEY WERE ATTACKED BY
AFGHANS.
THEY COME DOWN HERE AND THEY ARE
ASKING THE POLICE TO PROTECT
THEM, TO REGISTER THEM AND TO
SEND THEM TO ATHENS FOR THEIR
OWN SAFETY.
>> THEY ATTACK US WITH A LITTLE
KNIFE AND THEY HIT US.
>> Reporter: EUROPE FEARS THAT
ISIL MEMBERS ARE HIDING AMONG
GENERAL REFUGEES.
>> YOU HAVE HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
CROSSING EVERY DAY, PLUS A LARGE
MUSLIM MIGRANT POPULATION IN THE
SO STATISTICALLY SOME OF THESE
PEOPLE, A VERY TINY MINORITY,
BUT STILL A FEW OF THEM WILL NOT
BE GOOD PERSONS.
SOME OF THEM COULD PROBABLY BE
JIHADISTS.
>> Reporter: THE ISLANDERS ARE
DOING WHAT THEY CAN TO SAVE
TOURISM AND STAY AFLOAT
FINANCIALLY.
BUT THEIR APPEALS TO NORTHERN
COUNTRIES FOR ASSISTANCE ARE
BEING REJECTED.
THEIR STANCE WAS OUTLINED BY
DANIEL HANNON, A MEMBER OF THE
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT FOR
BRITAIN'S CONSERVATIVES IN
COPENHAGEN TO HELP THE ELECTION
CAMPAIGN OF THE ANTI-IMMIGRANT
PEOPLE'S PARTY.
>> IT'S SO EASY TO TRY AND
SIGNAL YOUR COMPASSION BY SAYING
THE GOVERNMENT OUGHT TO DO
SOMETHING, BUT THE REALITY IS
THAT IF WE HAVE MORE AMNESTIES
AND MORE PEOPLE BEING GRANTED
RIGHT TO REMAIN HERE, WE ARE
ENCOURAGING MORE AND MORE PEOPLE
TO MAKE THIS HELLISH CROSSING.
>> Reporter: IN ITSATES LT
REPORT, AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL
SAYS COUNTRIES MUST PRIORITIZE,
SAVING PEOPLE IN DISTRESS OVER
IMPLEMENTING IMMIGRATION
POLICIES.
BUT MUCH OF EUROPE ISN'T
LISTENING.
FOR THE PBS "NEWSHOUR," THIS IS
MALCOLM BRABANT IN GREECE.
>> Wooduff: IT'S BEEN MORE THAN
A DECADE SINCE THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT FIRST CAME UP WITH A
"DO NOT CALL" REGISTRY TO BLOCK
UNWANTED PHONE CALLS.
THAT MOVE HAD A MAJOR IMPACT
INITIALLY.
BUT IN THE YEARS SINCE, THERE'S
BEEN A BIG RISE IN THE NUMBER OF
ROBOCALLS PEOPLE GET THOSE
AUTOMATED AND RECORDED PHONE
CALLS AND TEXTS THAT REPEATEDLY
GO TO YOUR PHONE.
THE FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS
COMMISSION IS NOW GIVING PHONE
COMPANIES MORE POWER TO BLOCK OR
PREVENT ROBOCALLS IF CONSUMERS
REQUEST IT.
TOM WHEELER IS THE CHAIRMAN OF
THE F.C.C., AND HE JOINS ME NOW.
TOM WHEELER JOINS ME NOW.
WELCOME BACK TO THE PROM.
>> HELLO, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: SO HOW IS THIS
RULE DIFFERENT THAN THE PREVIOUS
ONE DEALING WITH ROBOCALLS?
>> THE ORIGINAL RULE IS THE
RESULT OF A 1991 ACT OF
CONGRESS.
24 YEARS AGO THE WORLD WAS A
LITTLE DIFFERENT IN TERMS OF
TECHNOLOGY.
THE PEOPLE WHO WERE MAKING THE
CALLS THAT INTERRUPTED YOUR
DINNER AT THAT POINT IN TIME
WERE LITERALLY SITTING DOWN AND
DIALING.
AND THAT TECHNOLOGY, THAT
APPROACH GOT REPLACED BY NEW
TECHNOLOGY THAT'S COMPUTERIZED,
LIKE EVERYTHING ELSE.
SO THEY JUST FEED A LIST OF
NUMBERS IN AND ALL OF A SUDDEN A
LIST OF CALLS GET MADE.
AND OUR RULES DIDN'T KEEP PACE
WITH THAT.
SO PEOPLE WERE ARGUING THAT THEY
HAD LEGAL RIGHT TO DO THIS, AND
WE JUST SAID SIMPLY, STOP.
THE CONSUMER NEEDS TO BE THE ONE
WHO IS IN CHARGE.
THE CONSUMER NEEDS TO GIVE
CONSENT THAT THEY WANT TO BE
CALLED, OR IF THEY ARE CALLED
AND HAVEN'T GIVEN CONSENT, TO
RENEW THAT CONSENT BY SAYING,
DON'T CALL ME ANYMORE OR BY
CALLING THEIR PHONE COMPANY AND
SAYING, I DON'T WANT TO GET
THESE CALLS.
>> WHAT ABOUT THE ARGUMENT FROM
SOME COMPANIES OUT THERE, WHO
SAY, WELL, THIS IS PREVENTING US
FROM DOING LEGITIMATE PHONE
CALLING, THIS IS REALLY REACHING
TOO FAR?
>> WELL, THE KEY TO LEGITIMACY
IS THAT THE CONSUMER WANTS TO BE
CONTACTED.
NOW, WE'VE GOT A COUPLE OF
EXCEPTIONS IN THE RULE, FOR
INSTANCE, IF YOUR BANK DISCOVERS
A BANK FRAUD, THEY CAN CALL YOU
AUTOMATICALLY.
IF YOUR HOSPITAL OR DOCTOR SAYS,
OH, THERE'S A MEDICAL EMERGENCY,
THEY CAN CALL YOU AUTOMATICALLY.
BUT BASICALLY IT COMES DOWN TO
DO YOU CONSENT THAT YOU WANT TO
BE CALLED?
YOU OUGHT TO BE IN CONTROL.
>> Woodruff: ONE OTHER
QUESTION THAT'S BEEN RAISED HAS
TO DO WITH POLITICS, AND PUBLIC
OPINION POLLING, THE POLLS
PEOPLE WHO DO THOSE POLLS SAY
THIS IS A LEGITIMATE PART OF
PUBLIC POLICY-MAKING.
WE DIDN'T NEED TO KNOW WHAT THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE THINKING.
THEY'RE SAYING THIS IS GOING TO
BE MUCH HARDER TO DO THAT.
>> WELL, THE WHOLE POLLING
BUSINESS HAS BEEN EVOLVING.
CELL PHONES STARTEDDED IT OFF
WHEN FOLKS MOVED TO CELL PHONES
AND YOU COULDN'T GET THOSE
NUMBERS AND HOW DO YOU SAMPLE
THAT GROUP.
AND I THINK THIS IS AN
EVOLUTIONARY PROCESS FOR THAT
POLLING BUSINESS.
>> Woodruff: TOM WHEELER,
ANOTHER INITIATIVE THE FCC VOTED
ON HAS TO DO WITH GIVING A
SUBSIDY TO LOW-INCOME
INDIVIDUAL, FAMILIES, TO MAKE IT
EASIER FOR THEM TO CONNECT TO
THE INTERNET.
HOW WOULD THAT WORK?
>> WELL, AGAIN, THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT GOES BACK IN
TIME, AS WELL.
DURING THE REAGAN
ADMINISTRATION, A DECISION WAS
MADE THAT THERE SHOULD BE
SUBSIDIES FOR LANDLINE PHONE
SERVICE SO THAT EVERYONE CAN
CALL 911.
AND THEN DURING THE SECOND BUSH
ADMINISTRATION, THAT WAS
EXPANDED TO CELL PHONES.
AND WHAT WE'RE DOING IS
TWO-FOLD.
ONE, WE'RE CLEANING UP SOME OF
THE PROBLEMS THAT WERE IN THE
DESIGN OF THE PREVIOUS PROGRAM
THAT FRANKLY LED TO SOME FRAUD
AND ABUSE.
AND SECONDLY, WE'RE SAYING THAT
THOSE PROGRAMS WERE IN AN ERA
WHEN A VOICE TELEPHONE CALL WAS
THE KEY TO COMMUNICATING.
AND TODAY THE KEY, EXCUSE ME, IS
BROADBAND.
YOU CAN'T APPLY FOR VETERANS'
BENEFITS OR GET A JOB OR DO YOUR
HOMEWORK UNLESS YOU HAVE
BROADBAND ACCESS IN YOUR HOME.
AND SO HOW DO WE MIGRATE FROM
WHAT WAS GOOD IN THE 20th
CENTURY TO WHAT'S BEST IN THE
21st?
>> CRITICISM OUT THERE, THIS IS
A PROGRAM THAT HAS BEEN ACCUSED
OF HAVING FRAUD INVOLVED IN IT,
HAVING WASTE.
THE GOVERNMENT'S OWN GOVERNMENT
ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE HAS SAID
THIS.
HOW DO YOU ADDRESS THAT?
>> SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
WE'VE BEEN DOING FOR THE LAST
SIX YEARS IS A SERIOUS OVERHAUL.
BUT THE PROBLEM WITH... THE
PROGRAM WAS DESIGNED WITH
SERIOUS FLAWS IN IT.
FOR INSTANCE, THERE SHOULD HAVE
BEEN FROM THE OUTSET A DATABASE
THAT SAYS, LET'S MAKE SURE THAT
THERE'S ONLY ONE PERSON IN A
HOME WHO IS GETTING THIS
BENEFIT.
THAT WAS NEVER DONE AND PUT IN
PLACE UNTIL THE LAST 12 MONTHS.
THERE WERE DESIGN PROBLEMS
SAYING, HERE, YOU SHOULDN'T HAVE
HAD THE PEOPLE WHO WERE
RECEIVING THE BENEFITS, THE
COMPANIES RECEIVING THE
BENEFITS, CERTIFYING THE
RECIPIENTS.
THAT'S AN INVITATION.
THAT'S THE FOX GUARDING THE
HENHOUSE.
WE'RE GOING THE CHANGE THAT.
>> Woodruff: ANOTHER QUESTION
THAT'S BEENS AWBS
IS DIRK BUT IT'S A SMALL
SUBSIDY.
INTERNET ACCESS COSTS A LOT NOW.
PEOPLE EXPECT THE COST MAY GO
UP.
HOW DO YOU KNOW THIS IS GOING TO
BE ENOUGH OF A SUBSIDY TO HELP
PEOPLE WHO REALLY NEED THAT
HELP?
>> YEAH.
I THINK WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO
IS FIND OUT THROUGH THE PROGRAM
ITSELF, BUT I THINK THAT THERE
IS A SERIOUS BUYING OPPORTUNITY
IN HERE.
YOU KNOW, I JUST GOT A NOTICE ON
MY CELL PHONE SAYING THAT I HAD
RUN OVER AND THEY WERE GOING TO
CHARGE ME $15 FOR ANOTHER GIG OF
DATA.
$15 FOR A GIG.
OKAY.
NOW LET'S SAY THAT I CAN BAND
MILLIONS OF CUSTOMERS TOGETHER
AND NOT HAVE SOME OF THE COSTS
AND OVERHEAD.
CAN I GO TO THE COMPANIES AND
SAY, HEY, WOULD YOU SELL ME THAT
FOR $9 INSTEAD?
I THINK THERE MAY BE SOME
OPPORTUNITIES THERE.
THAT'S WHAT WE'LL TRY AND DO.
>> Woodruff: TOM WHEELER, THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE FEDERAL
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
OVERSEEING SOME CHANGES.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Ifill: NOW, A DIFFERENT LOOK
AT RACE, VIOLENCE AND JUSTICE.
IT'S CONTAINED IN A NEW
DOCUMENTARY ABOUT A CASE FROM
FLORIDA THAT ASKS MANY OF THE
SAME QUESTIONS THAT HAVE
DOMINATED HEADLINES FROM
FERGUSON, MISSOURI TO STATEN
ISLAND, NEW YORK.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> A VERDICT IN THAT
HIGH-PROFILE MURDER CASE IN
FLORIDA.
>> THAT MAN ACCUSED PUOFLLING A
TRIGGER AT A GAS STATION.
>> HE SHOT INTO A CAR FULL OF
TEENAGERS.
>> Brown: IT WAS A CRIME
WIDELY REPORTED BY NEWS
ORGANIZATIONS AROUND THE
COUNTRY, INCLUDING OUR OWN.
IT BECAME KNOWN AS "THE LOUD
MUSIC CASE."
>> IN NOVEMBER 2012, THE MAN
PULLED INTO A GAS STATION WHERE
FOUR TEENAGERS WERE PARK IN AN
S.U.V. LISTENING TO LOUD MUSIC.
AFTER AN ARGUMENT, DOWN FIRED
THREE BULLETS INTO THE CAR.
DAVIS WAS HIT AND LATER DAVID.
>> THE SHOOTING OF JORDAN DAVIS
BY MICHAEL DOWN IN JACKSONVILLE,
FLORIDA, HAPPENED JUST NINE
MONTHS AFTER THE TRAYVON MARTIN
SHOOTING IN SANFORD, FLORIDA.
TOGETHER THE TWO CASES BROUGHT
TO THE FORE A NATIONAL DIALOGUE
ABOUT RACE, GUNS AND FLORIDA'S
STAND YOUR GROUND LAW.
ADDRESS OF YOUR EMERGENCY?
>>
>> Brown: THE TRIAL OF DUNN IS
OUTLINED IN A DOCUMENTARY CALLED
"THREE AND A HALF MINUTES" THE
LENGTH OF TIME AT THE GAS
STATION AND THE FATAL SHOTS
BEING FIRED.
>> POP, POP.
POP, POP, POP.
>> Brown: I SPOKE TO DIRECTOR
MARC SILVER AT SUNDANCE WHERE
THE FILM PERIOD.
>> I THINK IT'S INTERESTING WHEN
WE THINK WE KNOW SOMETHING WHEN
YOU WATCH THE NEWS, BUT WHEN YOU
START UNPEELING THE LAYERS,
THERE'S A BIGGER STORY
UNDERNEATH.
THE THREE THINGS I WAS
INTERESTED IN WERE THIS IDEA OF
RACIAL PROFILING, ACCESS TO GUNS
AND THEN THE LAWS THAT GIVE
PEOPLE THE CONFIDENCE TO USE
THOSE GUNS.
>> Brown: WHAT DO YOU THINK
YOU WERE ABLE TO BRING OUT THAT
DIDN'T COME IN THAT?
>> I THINK THIS IDEA OF
IRREVERSIBLE LOSS FOR JORDAN'S
PARENTS AND I THINK AS AN
AUDIENCE WHEN YOU START FEELING
EMPATHY FOR THE PARENTS, I THINK
YOU START READING THE NEWS AND N
A DIFFERENT KIND OF WAY.
>> Brown: JORDAN'S PARENTS,
RON DAVIS AND LIAUC McBATH
WERE THERE EVERY DAY IN THE
COURTROOM.
SILVER SPENT COUNTLESS HOURS
INTERVIEWING THEM BEFORE AND
AFTER THE PROCEEDINGS.
THEY ALSO ATTENDED THE PREMIER.
>>I WANT TO START BY ASKING YOU
ABOUT THE DECISION TO
PARTICIPATE IN THE FILM.
>> I WAS ACTUALLY SURPRISED THAT
ANYONE WOULD BE INTERESTED IN
FOLLOWING US DAY TO DAY AND
REALLY UNDERSTANDING THE
BEHIND-THE-SCENES STORY THAT
NOBODY EVER KNOWS OUTSIDE OF THE
TRIAL.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT FOR YOU?
>> WHEN YOU HAVE THIS TYPE OF
TRAGEDY, YOU CUT OFF ALL YOUR
PHONES AND CURL UP IN YOUR BED,
YOU KNOW, AND YOU DON'T WANT TO
BE BOTHERED.
THAT'S OKAY IF THAT'S WHAT YOU
WANT TO DO FOR YOURSELF AND YOU
FAMILY.
AT THE END OF THE DAY, DO I WANT
THE GET A MESSAGE OUT?
DO I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
JORDAN'S LIFE AND DEATH MEANT
SOMETHING TO NOT ONLY THE
COMMUNITY BUT ACROSS THIS
TIONNA?
DO I WANT TO GET THAT OUT?
AND THE BEST WAY TO GET THAT OUT
IS THROUGH FILM.
SO I'VE DECIDED, YEAH, LET'S GO
AHEAD.
>> TRAYVON MARTIN'S FATHER TEXTS
ME, "I WANT TO WELCOME YOU TO A
CLUB NONE OF US WANT TO BE IN."
>> Brown: DAVIS AND McBATH
MEET REGULARLY WITH OTHER
PARENTS WHOSE CHILDREN HAVE BEEN
THE VICTIMS OF VIOLENCE.
>> I KNOW A LOT OF FATHERS, THEY
ARE VERY BITTER ABOUT THIS
EXPERIENCE.
MY EXPERIENCE WITH JORDAN HAS
NOT BEEN A BITTER EXPERIENCE.
AND I THINK THAT FOR THE MOST
PART IT'S BECAUSE WE HAVE SO
MUCH SUPPORT.
WE HAD A STATE ATTORNEY THAT
FOUGHT FOR US, YOU KNOW, IN THIS
TRIAL.
MOST OF THE STATE ATTORNEYS ARE
NOT FIGHTING FOR THE FAMILIES.
>> Brown: THE TRIAL AGAINST
MICHAEL DUNN ENDED WITH THREE
GUILTY VERDICTS FOR THE
ATTEMPTED MURDER CHARGES ON THE
OTHER MEN IN THE CAR BUT A
MISTRIAL ON MICHAEL DAVIS.
THE NEXT JURY CONVICTED DUNN TO
MURDER.
HE WAS SENTENCED TO LIFE PLUS 90
YEARS IN PRISON.
>> DO YOU THINK OF WHAT HAPPENED
WITH YOUR SON IN THESE TRIALS,
DO YOU THINK OF IT AS A CASE
WHERE JUSTICE WAS SERVED?
>> EVEN THOUGH WE RECEIVED THE
VERDICT WE KNEW WE SHOULD HAVE
RECEIVED FOR JORDAN, WE TILL
DON'T HAVE OUR CHILD, JUST THE
MEMORIES.
SO FOR ALL THAT IT'S WORTH, THE
JUSTICE THAT WE RECEIVED IS
GOOD, ONE, BECAUSE IT SETS A
PRECEDENT.
IT'S GOOD FOR THE NATION TO SEE
THAT JUSTICE CAN BE SERVED WHEN
YOU TAKE HATE AND ANGER OUT OF
IT AND MOVE DIRECTLY FOR JUSTICE
AND THE TRUTH.
IT CAN WORK.
>> AT THE END TW MUCH TIME SOMY
GETS, YOUR SON IS DEAD.
YOU HAVE TO VISIT YOUR SON AT A
CEMETERY.
>> Brown: DO YOU THINK A FILM
CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I THINK FILM AND MEDIA ARE THE
TRUEST EXPRESSIONS AND WAYS TO
EDUCATE PEOPLE ABOUT RACE
ANDETHS INTY AND RELIGION AND
HOW WE RELATE TO ONE ANOTHER.
I THINK THIS IS A TREMENDOUS
OPPORTUNITY, TREMENDOUS TOOL TO
BE ABLE TO OPEN THAT DIALOGUE
AND GET PEOPLE BEGINNING TO EVEN
THINK ABOUT THEIR OWN HIDDEN
IDEAS AND OPINIONS ABOUT RACE.
>> MAYBE THEY DIDN'T HAVE A GUN,
BUT HE THOUGHT THEY HAD A GUN.
>> Brown: OF COURSE MAKER MARC
SILVER MAKES ONE KEY DECISION HE
HOPES WILL HELP UNIVERSAZELI
THIS STORY.
THROUGHOUT THE FILM WE SEE VERY
FEW IMAGES OF JORDAN DAVIS
HIMSELF.
>> I THOUGHT HIS STORY WOULD
SPEAK METAPHORICALLY FOR OTHER
YOUNG BLACK MEN.
BY NOT SEEING JORDAN THAT MUCH
IN THE FILM, MEND YOU COULD
APPLY WHAT WAS BEING DISCUSSED
IN THE FILM TO ALL OF TEASE
OTHER DEHUMANIZED NAMES OF
PEOPLE.
>> Brown: IT'S ONLY WHEN THE
CREDITS ROLL THAT WE SEE THE
YOUNG MAN HO LOST HIS LIFE IN
THOSE THREE AND A HALF MINUTES.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN FOR THE PBS
"NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: TIME NOW FOR OUR LOOK
AT INTERESTING PEOPLE AND IDEAS
ONLINE THAT YOU MAY HAVE MISSED
ON THE WEB, A SEGMENT WE CALL
"NOT TRENDING."
I RECORDED THIS CONVERSATION
RECENTLY.
THERE WERE SEVERAL STORIES THAT
CAUGHT OUR EYE ON THE WEBSITE,
OZY, RECENTLY, INCLUDING ONES
FOCUSED ON SOME INTRIGUING
EFFORTS WITH PUBLIC EDUCATION
AND MATTERS OF JUSTICE.
CARLOS WATSON IS THE FOUNDER AND
C.E.O. OF OZY, HE JOINS ME NOW.
>> GOOD TO BE WITH YOU.
>> Ifill: I WANT TO START BY
ASKING YOU ABOUT THIS GENTLEMAN,
ANTWAN WILKER, THE
SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS IN
OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA, NOT A JOB
FOR THE FAINT OF HEART.
IN FACT, HE SPENDS A LOT OF HIS
TIME DODGING SPITBALLS.
>> DODGING SPITBALLS, SADLY BUT
SERIOUSLY DEATH THREATS, A LOT
OF ANGER.
OAKLAND IS A PLACE OF PROTEST
FOR MANY YEARS.
THEY'VE NEVER BEEN AFRAID TO
PROTEST, AND WHEN IT COMES TO
PUBLIC EDUCATION, WHICH HAS NOT
BEEN GOOD THERE, THEY HAVE A NEW
SUPERINTENDENT, ANTWAN, COMES
FROM DENVER AND IS TRYING TO
CHANGE THINGS IN A FAIRLY
DRAMATIC WAY.
>> Ifill: WHAT DOES HE HAVE TO
CHANGE?
IT SEEMS LIKE HE HAS EVERYTHING
THAT COMES ALL TOGETHER IN THIS
ONE MUNICIPALITY, WHETHER IT'S
DEBATE ABOUT COMMON CORE OR
VIOLENCE OR ACADEMIC STANDARDS
FOR YOUNG PLAQUE MEN?
>> ALL IN ONE PLACE AND
UNFORTUNATELY A 67% HIGH SCHOOL
GRADUATION RATE WHERE IN MUCH OF
THE COUNTRY IT'S IN THE 80s
AND 90s.
SO REALLY DIFFICULT.
THE MOST IMPORTANT THING HE SAYS
IS WHO IS IN THE SCHOOL
BUILDINGS WHOM ARE THE TEACHERS,
WHO ARE THE PRINCIPALS?
IT'S BEEN AOUG TH FIGHT TO TRY
AND HIRE DIFFERENT PEOPLE.
HE'S HAD TO INCREASE SALARIES.
HE'S HAD TO ASK FOR MORE
FLEXIBILITY IN SAYING YES AND NO
TO PEOPLE.
THE CHARTER SCHOOL CONVERSATION,
YOU'VE HEARD HOW DIFFICULT
THAT'S BECOME.
HE'S SAID, WE CAN COEXIST.
SOME OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOL
SUPERINTENDENTS HAVE TRIED TO
PUSH HIM ASIDE.
THAT'S BEEN SOMETHING HE'S BEEN
OPEN TO, TRYING TO REDUCE CLASS
SIZES AND TRYING TO BRING BACK
THAT CONVERSATION FOR 30
STUDENTS IN THE CLASSROOM
SOMETIMES DOWN TO 24, 25.
>> Ifill: THE FIGHT IS OFTEN
LEFT VERSUS RIGHT WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT EDUCATION IN THIS COUNTRY.
IN OAKLAND IT'S LEFT VERSUS
LEFT.
>> WHAT A TERRIFIC AND GREAT WAY
TO SAY IT.
YOU'RE 100% RIGHT.
YOU GO TO A SCHOOL BOARD
MEETING, PEOPLE WOULD ARGUE HE'S
NOT DOING ENOUGH.
SO IN SOME PLACES AS YOU'VE SAID
BEFORE, LEFT VERSUS RIGHT, LEFT
VERSUS SUPER LEFT IN OAKLAND.
WHAT'S INTERESTING ABOUT ANTWAN
WILSON, HE'S ONE OF THE LAST
REFORM SUPERINTENDENTS.
YOU REMEMBER WHEN MICHELLE LEE
WAS SUCH A BIG NAME.
>> Ifill: HERE IN WASHINGTON,
D.C.
>> VERY FEW NAMES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY HAVE THAT KIND OF
COMPELLING REFORM AGENDA.
HE'S ONE OF THE, LAST ONE OF THE
FEW BLACK MEN.
>> Ifill: TALK ABOUT SOMETHING
INTERESTING.
EVEN THOUGH IT STARTS IN A BAD
PLACE.
IN AN INTERESTING EFFORT, AND
SOMETHING THAT CERTAINLY IS
TRENDING, TO KIND OF TRANSFORM
THE LIVES OF INMATES.
>> VERY MUCH SO.
YOU KNOW TODAY IN THE U.S. WE
HAVE NORTH OF 2 MILLION PEOPLE
IN THE PRISON.
ALMOST HALF OF THEM WHEN THEY
LEAVE PRISON END UP BACK IN
PRISON WITHIN A FEW YEARS.
A NUMBER OF FOLKS HAVE SAID, IS
THERE A DIFFERENT WAY FORWARD.
ONE OF THEM IS HAVING PRISONERS
WORK WITH WILD HORSES.
SO IN THE WEST, PLACES LIKE
ARIZONA, OVER 40,000 WILD
MUSTANG, BUREAU OF LAND
MANAGEMENT SAID LET'S TRY AND
TAME THESE HORSES AND IN SOME
CASES LET'S SELL THEM OR GIVE IG
WORKING FOR THE U.S. GOVERNMENT.
NOW THEY HAVE A COUPLE DOZEN
PRISONERS WORKING FOR FOUR TO
SIXTH MONTHS AT A TIME DAY IN
AND DAY OUT, NOT MAKING A LOT
BUT MAYBE LEARNING A LITTLE BIT.
>> Ifill: IS THERE ANY
EVIDENCE THAT THIS KIND OF
EFFORT TO DETUR RECIDIVISM TAKES
HOLDS?
THAT ONCE THEY CONNECT WITH
THESE WILD HORSE, THESE WILD
ANIMALS, THAT PERHAPS THEY SEE A
DIFFERENT PURPOSE?
>> THERE IS.
BEFORE IT STARTED IN ARIZONA,
YOU SAW IT IN COLORADO.
SO IT'S BEEN AROUND FOR 20-PLUS
YEARS.
THE RECIDIVISM RATE, THE NUMBER
OF PEO W
JAIL WITHIN THREE TO FIVE YEARS
HAS BEEN DOWN TO 15% IN SEOM OF
THOSE CASES VERSUS 50% PLUS.
SO IT CAN HAVE DRAMATIC IMPACTS.
THIS PROGRAM IS NEW, ONLY AROUND
A YEAR AND A HALF.
THEY'RE WORKING WITH A COUPLE
DOZEN HORSES, BUT ONE THING THAT
RANDY HOLM, THE GUY WHO RUNS IT,
SAYS THAT PEOPLE HAVE TO LEARN
THAT BAD DECISIONS ARE HARD AND
GOOD DECISIONS ARE EASY.
DOING THAT WITH WITH THE HORSES
THEY CAN TEACH THAT TO
PRISONERS.
>> Ifill: ON THAT OPTIMISTIC
NOTE, WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THINGS
NOT TRENDING.
THANK YOU, CARLOS WATSON.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: YOU CAN FIND MORE OF
MY CONVERSATION WITH CARLOS
ONLINE, A LOOK AT
>> Ifill: YOU CAN FIND MORE OF
MY CONVERSATION WITH CARLOS
ONLINE.
A LOOK AT THE PRESIDENT OF A
SMALL AFRICAN NATION CALLED THE
GAMBIA.
HE RULES A REGIME INCREASINGLY
CRITICIZED FOR HUMAN RIGHTS
ABUSES WITH AN IRON FIST.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Wooduff: ON FRONTLINE
TONIGHT, AN INVESTIGATION INTO
THE LONELY, AND OFTEN DANGEROUS
JOBS PERFORMED BY THE PEOPLE WHO
CLEAN MALLS, BANKS, BIG BOX
STORES AND THE OFFICES WHERE WE
WORK.
EVERY NIGHT, AS MOST PEOPLE HEAD
HOME, MILLIONS OF JANITORS
ACROSS AMERICA, MANY OF THEM
WOMEN, BEGIN THEIR NIGHT SHIFT.
THEY ARE OFTEN ALONE OR ISOLATED
IN EMPTY BUILDINGS, AND
VULNERABLE TO SEXUAL VIOLENCE.
HERE'S ONE WOMAN'S STORY OF
ABUSE AND THE RESPONSE FROM AN
EXECUTIVE AT SERVICE MANAGEMENT
SYSTEMS, OR S.M.S., WHICH
EMPLOYS JANITORS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
A WARNING: THE STORY CONTAINS
SOME GRAPHIC DESCRIPTIONS.
>> HE ALWAYS WAS SHOWING ME
PORNOGRAPHY VIDEOS.
I WAS FEELING UNCOMFORTABLE, I'M
LIKE-- AND HE EVEN SHUT THE
LIGHTS OFF AND EVERYTHING-- I
SAID, "MARCO WHY ARE YOU SHOWING
ME THIS?"
>> Reporter: KARLA PEREZ ALSO
WORKED FOR S.M.S. THIS IS THE
FIRST TIME SHE SAYS SHE HAS
SHARED HER FULL STORY.
>> ONE DAY HE SAID, "KARLA, COME
INTO THE OFFICE."
I CAME INTO THE OFFICE AND HE
PULLED HIS PANTS DOWN AND HE
TAKE HIS THING OUT AND HE MAKE
ME, AND HE MAKE ME PUT IT IN MY
MOUTH.
YOU KNOW I PUT HIS STUFF IN MY
MOUTH, IN MY MOUTH AND--
ANHE CD D
SAID TO ME "NOBODY WILL KNOW
ABOUT THIS, NOBODY WILL BELIEVE
YOU."
>> Reporter: PEREZ QUIT WITHOUT
FILING A COMPLAINT WITH S.M.S.
EVENTUALLY, SHE WENT TO THE
POLICE.
GONZALEZ DENIED THE ALLEGATIONS.
A SECOND WOMAN WENT IN AND
COMPLAINED TO THE POLICE.
>> I'M NOT AWARE OF THAT.
>> Reporter: AND WHAT ABOUT A
COMPUTER THAT MARCO GONZALEZ HAD
THAT SHOWED THAT HE WAS
ACCESSING RAPE PORN SITES.
>> YEAH, I DON'T REMEMBER
HEARING ABOUT THAT.
>> Reporter: NO ONE TOLD YOU
ABOUT IT?
>> NOT THAT I CAN RECALL.
>> Reporter: AND THEN, YOU KNOW
THAT THE MANAGER CHANGED HIS
STORY A NUMBER OF TIMES AB
WHAT HAPPENED.
>> I'M NOT AWARE OF THAT.
>> YOU DON'T KNOW THAT HE TOLD
THE POLICE TWO DIFFERENT
STORIES?
>> I DON'T REMEMBER EVER HEARING
THAT.
>> Reporter: S.M.S. INTERNAL
COMPLAINTSDURING THE LAWSUIT
S.M.S. WAS ORDERED TO PRODUCE
INTERNAL SEXUAL HARASSMENT
COMPLAINTS.
THE RECORDS SHOWED A NUMBER OF
INCOMPLETE INVESTIGATIONS AND
DOZENS OF ACCUSATIONS AGAINST
OTHER SUPERVISORS.
>> THREE YEARS OF RECORDS FROM
YOUR INTERNAL COMPLAINT SYSTEM
SHOWED THAT SOMEWHERE AROUND 31
OF THOSE WERE MADE AGAINST
SUPERVISORS.
THAT NEVER GOT YOUR ATTENTION?
>> NO.
>> YOU DON'T REVIEW THESE
COMPLAINTS?
YOU HAVE LIKE A BRIEFING EVERY
QUARTER?
>> TYPICALLY I DON'T.
OH, I HAVE BRIEFINGS, LOWELL, ON
THE CASES.
BUT I HAVE STAFF SPECIFICALLY
ASSIGNED TO THAT.
>> WELL, A NUMBER DON'T APPEAR
TO HAVE ANY FOLLOW UP
INVESTIGATION WHICH WOULD SEEM
TO VIOLATE YOUR POLICY.
>> AGAIN, EVERY COMPLAINT OR
ACCOUNT OF BEHAVIOR THAT MIGHT
BE SEXUAL HARASSMENT WE TAKE
VERY SERIOUSLY AND WE WANT TO DO
A PROMPT AND THOROUGH
INVESTIGATION.
>> BUT THERE WOULD BE A FILE
SOMEWHERE WOULDN'T THERE?
>> THERE SHOULD BE, YES.
IT COULD BE AS SIMPLE AS "DO YOU
REMEMBER INVESTIGATING?"
"YES, I DID."
"WHERE ARE THE NOTES"
"I DON'T KNOW WHERE THE NOTES
ARE".
>> THERE MAY HAVE BEEN AN
INVESTIGATION BUT THERE'S NO
RECORD OF IT.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> Wooduff: WATCH THE FULL
FRONTLINE "RAPE ON THE NIGHT
SHIFT" TONIGHT ON MOST PBS
STATIONS.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, LAST NIGHT WE BROUGHT
YOU A STORY ON AQUAPONICS, A
SYSTEM OF FARMING THAT USES NO
SOIL.
TONIGHT, READ HOW ONE NON-PROFIT
IS HELPING SCHOOLS SET UP THEIR
VERY OWN AQUAPONIC SYSTEMS AS
BOTH A TEACHING LABORATORY AND A
WAY TO EARN MONEY.
WE HAVE A GUIDE FOR SCHOOLS ON
HOW TO GET STARTED, ON OUR HOME
PAGE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: TUNE IN LATER THIS
EVENING ON CHARLIE ROSE: THE
RISE OF US OPEN GOLF CHAMPION
JORDAN SPIETH.
>> Wooduff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, CHARLAYNE HUNTER
GAULT TALKS WITH JOSEPH RILEY,
MAYOR OF CHARLESTON, SOUTH
CAROLINA.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.